---
title:  "Connecting two VMs running on Xen hypervisor using an OVS bridge"
date:   2016-12-11 18:04:23
categories: [hypervisor]
tags : [virtualization]
---

In this configuration, we will connect two VMs using an OVS bridge. The VMs will solely be connected to each other via the bridge without any connectivity to the dom0. Hence , the VMs will only be able to communicate with each other.

##### Creating and Setting up an OVS bridge.

We will create an OVS bridge named ovsbr1. ovsbr1 will be connected to vm-1, vm-2 and interface eth1.

Create the bridge using the command :

```
sudo ovs-vsctl add-br ovsbr1
```

> Make sure you have installed ovs using apt-get package.

By default, the Linux bridge is connected to the VMs. To remove this connection and add OVS bridge to your VM, edit your VM config file by adding parameters to the vif:

```
vif = 'script=vif-openvswitch,bridge=ovsbr1'
```

To connect your bridge to both the VMs add this line to both the VM config files.

> When no parameters are set for vif, the VM is by default connected to the Linux bridge. When you specify the name of the bridge in your config file, you are specifying that this particular bridge (ovsbr1) should be connected to eth0 of your VM. Don't worry about which ovsbr1 port will be connection VM's eth0. This will be taken care of by Xen.


Now that ovsbr1 is connected to both the VMs, we can proceed to connecting the bridge to the interface(eth1 here). For this, create a port and connect it to the interface to complete the setup.

```
sudo ovs-vsctl add-port ovsbr1 eth1
```

Restart the network by using either of the two ways:

```
sudo service network-manager restart
```

```
sudo ifconfig eth1 down && sudo ifconfig eth1 up
sudo ip link set eth1 down && sudo ip link set eth1 up
```

In case this does not work either, restart the server/system.

#### Setting up the VM network manually.

Now that the VMs are not connected to the Linux bridge, they do not have any ip address. We will set up local ip addresses for both the VMs so that they can communicate with each other.

For any network configuration changes to the Ubuntu system, you need to edit file /etc/network/interfaces.

I am using 192.168.1.10 and 192.168.1.20 for vm-1 and vm-2 respectively. The subnet mask is 255.255.255.0. Make sure that the subnet mask you are using is the same as that of being used for the Linux Bridge (in other words, to the subnet mask on eth0 of your server/system).

Edit /etc/network/interfaces on vm-1:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
      address 192.168.1.10
      netmask 255.255.255.0
      network 192.168.1.0
      broadcast 192.168.1.255
      gateway 192.168.1.1
      dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1 8.8.8.8

```
Make similar changes to vm-2 using ip address 192.168.1.20 and save it.

Restart the two VMs. Test the connectivity between the two using ping command. The two VM's should be able to ping each other and no other address.

```
ping 192.168.1.20
```
should work on vm-1 but

```
ping www.google.com
```
or

```
ping <ip_address_of_eth0_on_server>
```

should not.

>Might have to restart the whole server to see the changes as resetting the network doesn't work.


The final network looks like this



     |------------------------------------------------------|
     |                                                      |
     |  |--------|        |----------|         |--------|   |
     |  | vm-1   |--------|  ovsbr1  |---------|  vm-2  |   |
     |  |--------|        |----------|         |--------|   |
     |                          |                           |
     |                          |                           |
     |-----------------|        |                           |
     |   Linux Bridge  |        |                           |
     |    |-------|    |    |-------|                       |
     |----| eth0  |---------| eth1  |-----------------------|
          |-------|         |-------|
